DAN: Since our return to Earth after defeating Zenoheld,
a whole lot has happened.
The most exciting thing is that Bakugan Interspace finally
went online globally, allowing kids from all over the world
to show their battling skills in a safe and friendly
environment.
Unfortunately, it seems like not everyone
wants this virtual realm to remain happy and free.
A mysterious evil force from another world
has infiltrated Bakugan Interspace
and is trying to take over.
OK buddy, let's do this!
All right!
Bakugan brawl!
[THEME - CREIGHTON DAN AND DANIEL LEBLANC,
\"THIS IS BAKUGAN\"]
THEME SONG: What are you going to do?
The odds are stacked against you.
Back against the wall.
Gotta to give it your all.
This is the final stand.
The power's in your hand!
Two worlds collide on the inside.
You've got to fight for what's right
before it's gone, gone, gone.
This is Bakugan!
Sorry guys, bad news.
Bakugan Interspace is temporarily closed.
Hey, let's not get nasty guys!
[crowd grumbling]
[sigh]
I'm sorry Master Marucho.
I've tried the various methods you described to override
the system from here.
But unfortunately, it appears the Gundalians
have complete control of Bakugan Interspace at the moment.
All right then.
Thanks a lot Kato.
I suspect that Ren has transferred the system
controls to the back room.
It was built with a standalone server.
So it would make more sense.
I bet it was his idea to build it that way too.
So if we can't access it through the main ethernet
network that means--
We have to physically get inside the back room,
and then manually override and reset
the system to regain control.
How are we going to pull that off?
It's kind of ironic that the security system Marucho just
enhanced will be the very thing that tips Ren and the others
off if we breach Interspace without diving
in through an access point.
Leave that to me.
I have one or two ideas about how
we can get around that hassle.
Building Bakugan Interspace was a dream come true for me.
Finally, we'd have a place for kids
from all over the world who could come and interact
in a peaceful environment.
But now that's being threatened by the Gundalian invaders.
We're with you.
Yeah, all the way!
It's time for us to take back Bakugan Interspace.
DAN: Bakugan Battle Brawlers in Escape From Darkness.
[creepy music]
Ren
Yes.
I'm afraid we're going to need you to explain.
How is it that you managed to infiltrate the Brawlers
yet somehow failed to bring them over to our side?
Well sir.
There's a rumor that you've come
to sympathize with our enemies.
Tell us.
Is that true?
Who told you those lies?
It doesn't matter who told us.
You've given me no reason to doubt your word Ren.
But if you're playing me for a fool
and I find out you betrayed me, a punishment you will suffer
will be certainly legendary.
Yes, your highness.
Very well.
But that still doesn't address the fact
that the Brawlers appear to have sided with the Neathians.
What do you have to say about that Ren?
The only thing I can offer you is
to renew my pledge of undying loyalty to Emperor Barodius
and to promise that if the Brawlers get in our way
again then I will destroy them without hesitation.
Huh.
Very well.
You may leave now Ren.
You're just letting him go?
I am.
With respect, I think you're too lenient on him
your highness.
I could be accused of being the same with you.
I'm certainly we have nothing to fear from the other Bakugan,
except for the one they call Drago.
He could prove difficult for Linehalt to defeat.
Hah!
Then I suppose we should have you waiting in the wings.
Ren, you can tell me the truth.
What do you mean?
It seems to me that you really don't
want to battle the Brawlers.
Do I need to remind you, Linehalt, of the darkness
we escaped?
Of course not Ren.
You must know that after so many years of being trapped there,
I'm very thankful for every day of freedom I've been granted.
Then tell me.
Tell me the awful truth again, so we're
both reminded of why we took on this mission
in the first place.
LINEHALT (VOICEOVER): There once existed a tribe of dark Bakugan
from ancient times who were rumored
to possess forbidden powers.
Because of this, they were feared by all
and forced by the emperor's family to live underground.
Over time, our numbers diminished
until I was the only one left.
From today forward, you will be caring for the dark Bakugan
who lives here.
[scream]
I- I don't want to do it.
This is your destiny boy.
As a descendant of the protectors of the dark Bakugan,
this is what you must do.
(ECHOING) But I don't want to!
This child is who they send to care for me?
Hmm.
As the last of the dark Bakugans,
it appears as though I am not valued.
[screaming]
Huh?
Are you all right?
[gasping]
No need to be afraid.
What's your name little one?
Ren.
Ren Krawler.
I am Darkus Linehalt. It's nice to meet you.
Uh-huh.
LINEHALT (VOICEOVER): I don't know how I would have survived
without your protection.
REN (VOICEOVER): Enough with your teasing.
Bakugan brawl!
LINEHALT (VOICEOVER): The strange thing
is that no one, including myself,
even knows what these forbidden powers are.
REN (VOICEOVER): Yet the fear and superstition around them
led us to be forced to live underground
in darkness for years.
Do you think we'll ever see sunlight
in our lifetime Linehalt?
I don't know Ren.
But I never give up hope.
Ren Krawler, we are aware that you are
an exceptional Darkus battler.
So we have selected you to be the leader of the advance
troops heading to Earth.
Huh?
Depending on your performance, I
may let you take my seat as a member of the Twelve Orders
if you're up for the task.
I won't let you down Emperor.
You can count on me.
I will bring Gundalia victory.
And that is why we chose to serve under Emperor Barodius.
I would like to know what these forbidden powers are
that the dark Bakugan are supposed to possess.
I wonder too what my true duty is
as the latest generation in the long line of protectors
of the dark Bakugan.
And to find that out, I'm willing to use
any means necessary.
OK.
Well, thanks for understanding and not
throwing your lunches at me!
Oh, man.
That almost got ugly.
[sigh]
Huh?
[crowd grumbling]
You can't be serious.
- Yes. - Hmm.
Totally
100%.
Good.
Then everyone's down with my plan.
We're down. Are you sure.
It's going to work?
It'll work Jake.
You just need to relax and let Marucho do his thing.
If you're ready then Fabia, let's do it.
I'm ready to go.
No pressure, but we're counting on you.
Yeah, no pressure at all.
Hey, we're not nervous at all guys.
Cool's the rule, baby.
Ready Aranaut?
As you command Princess.
Whoa!
Where'd she come from?
There is danger here!
You all need to dive out immediately,
and go back to your home!
Huh?
But why?
Don't ask questions, just go now, OK?
Princess over there.
They're on to us.
All according to plan.
FABIA (VOICEOVER): I hope this works Marucho.
You guys really stink at sneak attacks.
I hate to tell you losers.
The security system picked up two intruders.
Where is the other one Zenet?
[suspenseful music]
Hey that's what's his name! Uh.
Masushi?
Masushu?
My name is Marucho.
Yeah, yeah. That's right.
Marucho.
[laughs]
I knew I recognized ya.
We've gone through a lot today to come
here and take your Bakugan from you in battle.
OK, very well then.
Show us what you got Princess.
Everyone is counting on us Aranaut!
Victory will be ours, Princess.
Akwimos, let's not blow this!
Cool is the rule dude.
Attention everyone and welcome!
The battle between Fabia and Marucho versus Lena and Zenet
will now begin.
Bakugan field open!
Gate Card set!
Bakugan brawl!
Bakugan stand!
Rise Aquos Phosphos!
[laughter]
Here we go.
Bakugan brawl!
Bakugan stand!
Neathia's castle knight, Haos Aranaut is here!
[rock music]
Look at you.
Such a tough guy.
Let's have it.
My turn now.
Put 'em up!
Ability activate!
Spit Poison!
Light Wave!
Ability activate, Gorgon Viper!
[laughter]
[roaring]
Disgusting creature.
Ability activate!
Mirage Fist!
You're nothing but a pack of despicable invaders!
No more!
[groaning]
Man, you take over one stinkin' home world.
What a whiner.
Bakugan brawl!
Bakugan stand!
Go Haos Contestir!
Ability activate!
Vanguard Lola!
[grunting]
[groaning]
Ability activate!
Mirage Jet!
[roaring]
[groaning]
Invade that you filthy animals!
Hah.
Gate Card open!
Apoptosis!
This extremely potent poison will devour him
from the ground up, much like we've been
doing to your beloved Neathia.
And he'll be helpless to stop it,
just like you and your people have been helpless to stop us.
[bubbling]
What?
Aranaut!
Oh no!
Nice one.
The royal princess gets a royal fail.
LENA (VOICEOVER): Why hasn't he joined the battle yet?
Marucho, I need you.
I understand Fabia.
Bakugan brawl!
Bakugan stand!
Go Haos Aranaut!
What the, another Aranaut?
I don't get it.
Zenet, do you know what's going on?
I don't know.
Maybe they're twins or something?
LENA (VOICEOVER): This makes no sense.
I've researched Marucho.
I seem to remember him being an Aquos battler like me.
But if that's true, why did he throw a Haos Bakugan?
This place gives me the creeps.
You make any progress yet?
Yes.
At least, I think so.
Hopefully, they still think my avatar is
actually the real me Akwimos.
I'm sure if our cover was blown,
we'd have heard it by now.
But still, you need to work faster!
Right.
OK, Fabia.
Just buy me enough time to finish this thing.
Pretty please.
Ability activate!
Support Light!
[groaning]
Thanks for the help my friend.
I've got it!
The second Aranaut is a digital clone.
A digital clone?
Huh, interesting.
Well now that they've figured that out,
we may as well fight together.
Right!
OK guys, let's win this fight.
Ability activate!
Dual Commando!
Time for a case of double vision.
Hah!
[groaning]
[both roar]
No more!
[roar]
Now I'm getting really annoyed.
Playtime is over children.
Ready Terrorcrest.
Battle Gear boost!
I want some fun too!
Ready Spartablaster.
All right, Battle Gear boost!
Here I come.
Battle Gear ability activate!
Spartablaster Sun!
(GROANING) I can't see.
Battle Gear ability activate!
Terrorcrest Stigma!
Princess, I'm sorry.
You're next clone!
Prepare to lose!
When will you Neathians learn that you're
no match for us in battle?
It's almost over.
FABIA (VOICEOVER): You better hurry up Marucho.
[tense music]
And what do you think you're doing?
Huh?
Ren.
Ah, tricky tricky.
You used an avatar to double for you while you snuck in here.
How deceitful.
Well you'd know best about deception, wouldn't you?
But never mind that.
I've come to take Bakugan Interspace space back!
Oh really?
Well, heh, I seem to remember building this place together.
So as I see it, I have just as big a claim on this place
as you do.
So why should I give it up just because we have
differing views on its uses?
That hardly seems fair doesn't it friend?
What the!
There are two Maruchos too?
How is that even possible, huh?
We've been battling a clone all along,
just like the second Aranaut.
What!
Are you kidding me?
Looks like they've figured it out Princess.
Yes, it does.
Ability activate, Spiral Glowdown!
What does that faker think he's doing, huh?
Ability activate!
Bolting Storm!
Time to end this.
[roar]
Marucho life force zero.
Bye cutie.
[gasp]
Gate Card open!
Healing Up!
Even if I have to do this alone, I am not going to give up.
Yes, me neither Princess.
Let's go!
Ready Battle Crusher.
OK, get ready Aranaut!
Battle Gear boost!
Battle Gear ability activate!
Battle Crusher Duke!
Ability activate!
Poison Rip!
Light's out for you!
[roaring]
Eat this.
Nice one!
You got him!
What just?
Phosphos's poison is fast acting
and can invade the entire body even from the tiniest scratch.
Looks like that's game over for you.
FABIA: Aranaut!
I have failed.
We may have built this together,
but it was based on my original vision, one of peace not war.
Like I said before, this is as much mine as it is yours.
And I'm not vacating just because you asked me nicely.
All right Ren.
Have it your way.
If all you understand is battle, then that's
what we'll do to settle this.
The loser leaves Bakugan Interspace forever.
Yeah, that works for me.
But are you really going to leave Fabia to struggle
by herself like that?
Aranaut!
[groaning]
[laughter]
LENA: Looks like the poison is taking its hold on Aranaut.
Battle Gear boost!
[roar]
Battle Gear ability activate!
Terrorcrest Stigma!
Run Aranaut, right now!
I'm sorry.
[phosphos laughs]
Oh no Fabia!
Life force zero.
Hey Lena, I got a really good idea!
I'm listening.
What if we took princess fancy pants back to Gundalia with us?
That is a pretty good idea.
With her as a hostage--
[gasp]
--it would give us quite a bit of leverage
against the Neathians.
Aranaut we have to get out of here.
I'm sorry Princess, but the last round
depleted all of my energy.
I don't have enough left to transport us home.
Oh no!
You and I will finish this another time Ren.
Give it up sister.
You're coming with us, one way or another.
So why make this difficult?
[screaming]
Fabia!
Marucho.
Let's go Akwimos.
LENA: Are you OK?
ZENET: No, she totally kung-fu'ed my butt.
You knew this would happen, so you made sure Marucho
saw that battle, didn't you?
Hmm, now why should I do that Linehalt?
We both know why.
[crowd screaming]
Hey guys, free cocoa and donuts while you wait.
Easy now, one at a time.
There's plenty to go around.
So you weren't able to get back control of Interspace?
No but I was able to install a backdoor for us to use instead.
Huh?
What do you mean by back door?
I don't get it.
He installed a computer virus that
will allow us to jump in and out of Interspace
without being detected.
Nice one Marucho!
Yeah dude!
If I've learned anything, it's that you always need a Plan B.
And now we've got one.
[all laughing]
[sinister music]
Emperor with a huge influx of battlers from Earth,
our troops have been very successful in the field.
We believe it is just a matter of time
before we break through the first shield.
Hmm.
If Neathia does possess the ultimate power
to rule the universe, it is of no use to them
as they are like mere children.
Only Gundalia deserves such power and wealth.
But to ensure that happens, we will need the element!
Yes sire!
SHUN: In an effort to stop the Gundalians from kidnapping
recruits for their war against Neathia,
we managed to infiltrate Bakugan Interspace.
We worked as hard as we could to get as many battlers as
possible safely back to Earth.
But then a strange gentleman from Neathia
named Linus showed up and wanted to see Fabia.
We weren't sure what to make of him at first, especially
since so many people we've met lately
seem harboring deep secrets.
Here we go again Hawktor.
Get ready to brawl.
Hawktor, let's brawl!
[theme music]